Group members :

Nur Ain Binti Ishak (1810052)
Ainin Sofiya Binti Amir (1814370)
Amirah Binti Masri (1813198)

# Introduction
The algorithms that have been chosen are First Come First Serve (FCFS), Priority Scheduling (PS) and Shortest Job First (SJF). The first algorithm is FCFS, is an operating system scheduling algorithm that automatically executes queued requests and processes in order of their arrival. It is the easiest and simplest CPU scheduling algorithm. In this type of algorithm, processes which requests the CPU first get the CPU allocation first. This is managed with a FIFO queue. It supports non-preemptive and pre-emptive scheduling algorithm,jobs are always executed on a first-come, first-serve basis, easy to implement and use and this method is poor in performance, and the general wait time is quite high.  The second algorithm is PS, which is based on the priority assigned to each process. Priority scheduling is a non-preemptive algorithm and one of the most common scheduling algorithms in batch systems. In priority scheduling the Processes are executed on the basis of priority, the process having highest priority is executed first. In case of similar priority FCFS is used. It's also used in such a way that, in case of similar priority SJF algorithm is used instead of FCFS and average waiting time and average turnaround time is calculated. The comparative analysis is performed on the SJF based priority scheduling and FCFS based priority scheduling to compare the average waiting time and average turnaround time. The third algorithm is SJF which is quite similar to FCFS concept, but the process which comes at the same time or the same ready queue must be sorted in ascending order. The smallest burst time will be the first order while the bigger will be the last one. The same arrival time must be sorted from low to high. This algorithm is having a minimum average waiting time among all scheduling algorithms.

# Consideration
The properties that have been considered to decide which among the algorithms is the best or the worst are the input and the output of the classes. For input, we specifically will emphasize it according to algorithm. For example, the SJF that emphasize on duration, which the duration played a huge impact in this algorithm that later on will influence the output of this processes. For output, we will consider the Average Waiting Time and the Average Turn Around Time. This is because, both of this output will determine which one of the algorithms have the best practices on the class scheduling.

# Analysis

## FCFS
In the "First come first serve" scheduling algorithm, the process which arrives first, is executed first (FIFO). In this algorithm, the inputs are course code, duration and arrival time. For this class-scheduling scenario, the lecturer’s arrival time will take a huge consideration as it is similar to process that arrives first will run first. Therefore, the arrival time is sorted and the class that the lecturer comes first will started their class first. However, the lower the Average Waiting Time, the better the scheduling algorithm. Among these three algorithms, FCFS have the longest Average Waiting Time, which is 2.6667 that makes it the worst practices for class scheduling implementation. In addition, in real life, if the class schedule depends on the lecturer that arrives first, everyday will be chaos, as the students would not know ahead of their time which class will start first.

## Priority Scheduling
Priority Scheduling Algorithm, which is based on the priority assigned to each process. In priority scheduling the Processes are executed on the basis of priority, the process having highest priority is executed first. In case of similar priority FCFS is used. By using this algorithm, the system output for average waiting time is 2.33333. Therefore, in this case we can say that we can just continue the current class until it end of the class then we continue with the class with high priority, since we used non-preemptive priority scheduling so the current class can execute until the end of the class then the next class can start the class.  Priority scheduling also state that the largest burst time the lower priority. Therefore, if the duration of the class is short, the waiting time for the next class is also low. Besides that, they will focus more on the more priority classes first than the less important ones. 
 
## SJF
SJF Algorithm is quite similar to FCFS concept, but the process which comes at the same time or the same ready queue must be sorted in ascending order. The smallest burst time will be the first order while the bigger will be the last one. Our output for average waiting time is 1.33333 which have a minimum average waiting time among all the scheduling algorithm and 3.33333 for average around time of SJF. We can say that SJF is better than FCFS and PS because SJF has a minimum average waiting time, and has the best average turnaround time. The SJF is better if the process comes to processor simultaneously. Nevertheless, the disadvantage of this algorithm is that long processes may never be processed by the system and may remain in the queue for very long time leading to starvation of processes. 

 
